# Code and data for "A cross-species analysis of neuroanatomical covariance sex differences in humans and mice" 

The analyses in this paper were executed in R (version 4.2.3). Ensure you have R and RStudio downloaded before trying the following instructions to replicate the results: 

1. [Clone](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository) the repository in its entirety.
2. Open the combined_cov_project.Rproj
3. Open _targets.R. This will open the _targets.R script in your .Rproj window.
4. Ensure that you have the [targets package](https://books.ropensci.org/targets/) installed. All data processing/analyses are wrapped inside the targets pipeline 
   defined in the _targets.R script. 
5. Source _targets.R to load all homemade functions (it will call to the functions folder located in the cloned repository) and packages required for the targets pipeline to run.
   If you're missing packages, now is the time to install them.
6. Type `tar_make()` in your terminal to run the pipeline and generate results. The results will be saved as targets in the _targets folder (made after you run tar_make()). 
   You can refer to any output targets by typing `tar_read(your_target_variable)` in the terminal. Refer to the targets package instructions blog for more information.
8. After running the targets pipeline, you will have covariance sex differences results to begin generating figures. Figures can be generated by using the
   code_for_final_figures.qmd file. This quarto file is clearly defined for where each figure can be generated. It will refer to targets made by the _targets.R file to make the figures. 

A few notes:

*The _targets pipeline will take 30 minutes - 1 hour to run on a personal machine due to the permutation process to find covariance sex differences statistical significiance. I would recommend 
setting this whole pipeline up on a supercomputer cluster if possible. Will make it run much faster. There are ways to reconfigure that _targets.R script for running on a cluster. The linked 
tutorial could be helpful in getting you set up.

*Any scripts that are under the 'biowulf codes' folder are meant to be run on a supercomputer. The best way to do this is to have this entire repo be on a supercomputing cluster already. 
If it's not, the easiest way to do this is simply transfer your _targets folder (not script), along with the .R and .sh script onto the cluster. Put all of these in the same directory on 
your cluster. When you submit your computing job, the R script will refer to the _targets folder in its same directory for any objects/targets required to run the scripts. Computing 
requirements listed at the beginning of each .sh file is currently biowulf specific -- change it to fit your own computing cluster. 

*If you're interested in how the data was cleaned, human data cleaning scripts can be found [here](https://github.com/phamlk/data-clean-human-cross-species-covariance-sex-differences) and mouse data cleaning is [here](https://github.com/phamlk/data-clean-mouse-cross-species-covariance-sex-differences). 
You will not be able to run these pipelines, as the raw data with all subjects that have been filtered out are not included in either repository. You can view the scripts for data cleaning in the _targets.R file and function folder of each repository. 
The cleaned data used for the analyses of this repository are the outputs of these data cleaning repositories. Cleaned data are included in both repositories, and the mouse data cleaning repository also has pre-Combatted (but subject filtered data) for your reference. 

*Please contact Linh (linh.pham2@nih.gov) for any questions or requests to see the raw, uncleaned data. 



